# Real-time-Bidding-System

In this project, the main objective is to help advertisers to build bidding strategies in a real-time bidding system. It started with implementing exploratory data analysis on the RTB dataset to gain initial insights. It is typically considered that an accurate prediction of CTR is rather significant for developing effective bidding strategies. Thus, we applied several machine learning algorithms for CTR estimator, and it was determined that XGBoosting model obtained the highest precision with the AUC of ROC score equals to 0.897. Based on pre-trained CTR prediction model, Linear and Non-Linear Bidding Strategies are created and optimized through parameter tuning. Finally, it was found that among all 5 Linear and Non-linear Bidding Strategies, the Squared Bidding Strategy yields the highest number of clicks (171 clicks) on the validation dataset. We suppose the strategy performed well on the validation set can similarly obtain a high click amount on the test dataset. Taking into account we are competing among different groups, we developed a game theory (multiagent) approach. In the multi agent system, a same strategy may lead to a poorer performance, because a bidder is harder to get impressions, and he tends to pay more for a same impression. To solve these two problems, we simulated opponents’ bids to update model parameters, and we postponed bids to reduce our impression payment as much as possible. In addition, we also considered asymmetric environment and cursed equilibrium in mixed bidder population to make some subjective adjustments to our strategy.

In terms of further research, we could ensemble two or several well-performed CTR estimator models to improve the precision. We also intend to introduce the Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning, as Du et al (2017) stated that the interaction between the bidders and the ADX shows grest similarity with the interaction between an agent and the corresponding environment, similar to the reinforcement learning framework.
